Hey little friends-- I'm here to help you understand some cool ideas in the world Javascript programming.

Now, today, we're making brains! ...Not really, but we're going to be working with ideas that you'd need to make a basic brain!

We've already gone over a bit of what a brain might need with some basic control flow in the form of if and else things. Let's take that idea and add a few bits! We're going to add the || operator which reads or, and the && which means and. This allows us to have multiple conditions in our if statement. Take, for example, our smart fish. Now we can have a fish that, if it sees food AND if the food does not have a hook through it OR a line attached to it, will eat the food, else (otherwise) it will swim past the obvious bait smugly. An interesting piece of this decision by the smart fish that we can take a look at is "food does not have a hook throught it" because it contains a negative decision "does not." We have an operator for that too, and it is the exclamation point! So the fish is saying that food could have a hook in it, and that's the positive that we're testing, but it will only eat the food if it DOES NOT have a hook in it.

Some other fun things that we can use to make a programming brain are loops. Loops are bascially bits of instructions that get repeated until they are told to stop for some reason. One type of loop is the For loop. For loops are loops that are generally used when we know how many times we want to increment something, and the conditions for them are generally based on repeated changes to a defined variable, or defined variables, in the context (in between the parentheses). There are three parts to a 'for' loop. First, you must define the variable that you want the for loop to change each time, to determine how many times you want to repeat the code in the body on the loop. Second, you need a condition that, once met, will stop the code from being repeated. The condition is based on the initial variable that we defined (simplistic... agh... I wish that I knew more)! The third bit is how we are going to change the variable such that it will eventually fulfull the condition that we defined in part 2! Every time the for loop repeats the code, it will change the variable per the code in this third bit. If the way in which you change the variable prevents the condition that you defined from ever being met, the code inside the loop will repeat forever until your browswer or your computer crashes!

The last piece of information (or pieces of information) that I'm going to talk you you little chaps today is the idea of an array. Arrays are ordered collections of information. Basically, it's kind of like a variable that has multiple values inside of it, each put inside and into a specific position. These values could be any of the three types that we talked about in our last lesson: booleans, string, or numbers. It's even possible to have nested arrays (arrays inside of arrays)! Arrays are useful for grouping together and organizing information so that sets of information can be used together. Arrays are also often used with for loops, to repeat a specific line of code on every value inside of the array.




